Now before we begin I want to peel back the curtain a little bit on what it is that create react app
was doing for us because create racked up sets up a lot for us and when we were writing our code it
kind of seemed like there was a lot of magic happening but I'm going to show you what react and react
on as libraries do.
And I'm just going to use pure vanilla javascript and some HMO.
It's actually incredibly easy and the first thing that I'm gonna do is I'm gonna make a new folder called
Pure Ria and inside of pure react I am going to make a source folder and then inside of our source folder
I'm going to make a index dot HCM Alpha and then we're going to open it up
inside of our index start each time I'll file.
I'm going to just generate our basic HDMI All right.
Our basic eight base each demo and then I'm going to in the body add in that div that we first saw inside
of our monster's Rolodex with the I.D. of root.
Now if you remember what we do in our index stock J File is we replace that root div with the actual
contents of our application.
So that's what we need to do as well.
We need that same thing.
Right.
And then we're going to include the two packages react and react on in order to do that.
I'm just going to add a script tag where the source goes to the react project.
So this is something called unpacking which lets us very easily bring in the react library just like
that and then we're gonna do the same thing with react on
and now our ReACT project has both these libraries.
So why are there to write well react is kind of just the API.
Right.
But then the thing that actually renders out to the DOM is what react on is the reason for this is because
react is a great kind of engine.
Right.
But you could have many different views that run on the same engine.
So react on this for the web and you might have heard to react native react any of it is actually exactly
what it is.
It's for native Android and Iaw.
So while it use it the same react engine it uses a different package other than react on to render its
Android and Iow views.
So that's why it's such a great package because you can even find ones like react 360 if you want to
build 3D stuff right.
Like virtual reality stuff but that's all we're doing we're just pulling in these two packages now to
show that it actually removes what's inside of this root div when we actually render in our ReACT code.
I'm just gonna put in here react rendered first.
So let's open up our index that HDMI out in the browser and now we'll see that React is not rendered
right because we haven't actually done that call where we replace the content inside of this div with
our application and we haven't built the application yet but first if we open up our dev tools we can
actually see now because we pulled in both those packages we have access to both react and react on.
Right.
These are the objects that the two packages provide into our global javascript namespace.
Once we brought those packages in and this is pretty much the same thing that we do when we import in
react and react on into our files it just gives us access to these two things.
Right now I'm going to actually add my own script tag and inside we're going to start writing our own
javascript to see what it is that these libraries do for us.
So first I'm going to write a functional component called app.
The same way we were writing them before except this time what I'm going to return is react jaw create
elements now create element is a function on rack that builds out those elements that we saw when we
wrote our return right inside of like let's say our Carla's component right.
It just we returned from this function this HDMI markup will create element is actually what it's doing
but instead of Jeff Sachs this is vanilla.
Right.
So what we've got to do is we write in here that we want to make a div.
You can put any other HCM l tag or whatever that you're looking for but I want to do so I can put div
and then the second argument is an object of any attributes that I want to add to my do.
So if I wanted to add a class or an I.D. right I would put them in here.
Right.
So like if I wanted to class right then I would put like you know card list the same way I did before.
But I don't want one.
So I can keep it empty.
And then the third and last argument is any children we want to nest inside of our div.
Right.
So I want to put in react jog create element again.
And I'm gonna put on an H1 again.
I don't want any attributes and inside of our H1 I'm going to put the text react is rendered.
Right and now we have our functional component and I'm gonna call react om da render.
I'm going to put a react create element again.
Right and I'm gonna put in our app.
I'm not actually gonna give it these two because these are actually optional right.
These last two arguments are completely optional.
I don't want attributes I don't want children.
Right.
And then you remember with our render we got to target that element that we want.
So get element by IP of route and just like that if we refresh react is rendered right.
That's all we were doing here.
Except with Jess X but now we're just doing it with vanilla javascript right.
That's all it's doing.
Dom dot render right.
We're creating that our application.
Right.
And just like that we.
That's all the react library does for us it just helps us create these HDMI elements using functions
or classes.
Right now let's actually take this a step further.
Now let's say I wanted to make a contact person write and contact person is the same thing.
It just react create element an inside is a div right.
Attributes and instead what I want to render is an array.
So if we want to multiple elements right we want a multiple children inside of this diff if we would
just use an array and inside I would do react create element H1 and then to object and I'm gonna put
E Hwa and then I'm gonna make another one except it's gonna be a p tag and it's gonna say developer
and now instead of just rendering in our application that each one of our actors render right.
I'm also going to render in multiple person
I'm going to react create element person and I'm gonna do it three times.
Now if we check our application we'll see.
Right.
We rendered our person component three times you are developer you are a developer you are a developer.
Now we can't go to these valleys.
But what if we wanted to do the same thing we did with our other components right.
We wanted to use props.
Well because it's just a functional component as we had before we can do exactly that can pass props
into this right.
And instead of you to do something like props that name right or props occupation and these are whatever
it is that the attributes are that we want for this component to take.
Right.
So now if we wanted to actually add those then we would do our name inside of that second argument with
that empty object right.
We do are attributes of name of Yehuda and then occupation of developer and now we can do the same thing
right for these other three and this one will be Andre
instructor
and let's say Ted and he is an actor right now if we look at our application we see we can pass in our
props right.
That's all we were doing when we were writing our functional components and our class components.
It's just that with J.S. a we don't have to call react create element constantly.
Right.
It knows to read from that HDMI markup that we were writing and that's why J.S. sex is so good when
we use it with react because this is kind of redundant right.
It's just a quality of life improvement.
Now you might be wondering how would we do it with are class components right.
It's actually the exact same.
So instead of an app I'm just going to put I'll just make a class app extends react component.
Right because component is just the method that exists on react right.
Sorry it's a class that exists I'll react that it exposes to us and then we have access that render
again and in that render I'm just going to return what it is that we had here
and now instead of app being a functional component we're still rendering are class component of that.
And if we look we'll see their application stays the same.
That's all it is.
That's all.
React does for us it helps us build out these views and that's why react and react om are such great
libraries because it just helps us simply build out our views and manage figuring out what the right
thing in our views is to update.